---
title: "Loup"
description: "Moving on from the big-corporation world to a small startup"
layout: post
tags:
 - meta
---
About a month and a half ago, I left [Amazon.com][amazon]. It was a tough decision but primarily based in opportunity and ownership for me. Things at Amazon were going well, as well as anyone can say working at Amazon goes, but I hungered for a challenge.

I didn't start looking around very feverishly&em;I would have been perfectly happy sticking around where I was&em;but I thought it prudent to keep my eyes out. Around this time, a recruiter from Google contacted me, and I started an interview process with them. Out of respect to their wishes I won't talk much about that. I didn't end up at Google anyway.

Around the same time I was interviewing with Google, I stumbled across [Hired][hired]. Hired is seriously cool. Basically, you log in and sign your life away to them (okay, not your life, just your social media &amp; LinkedIn accounts for their trawling purposes), and they match you up with employers, who get to try and sell _their company_ to _you_. That's a nice changeup from the typical neurosis of trying to impress an employer throughout a five-week interview process.

With Hired I received hits from a number of small companies, but one in particular got my attention: [Loup][loup]. Loup is a cool little startup. We, like a number of other companies, are trying to get our slice of the transportation pie that companies like [Lyft][lyft] and [Uber][uber] are gobbling up, while trying to define new market possibilities.

I am the official "Senior Mobile Engineer" for the company, and that's meant a lot of responsibility and a lot of work. I'm loving it. I'm wholly responsible for shipping apps and get complete control over the architecture and implementation. It's a huge challenge, and one in which I'm learning every second.

One of the perks that comes with working, well, anywhere but Amazon, is I get to release and work on open source projects, and personal closed source projects! That really excites me. While I love working with other passionate people, I want to get to a point in my life where I can develop software independently for a living. It will be a long struggle, but the first step is to have an idea and to start executing.

The entity under which I'll be developing software for independent release is called _CommandShift Labs_. I've had the name up my sleeve for some time, and I'm so excited to start working under its shadow. Check out the [CommandShift Labs Blog][commandshift] for updates on what I'm doing over there.

Here's to hoping I start writing more; I'm enjoying getting to let my thoughts spill out, even if not a soul reads them.


[amazon]: https://amazon.com/ "Amazon.com: The World's Biggest Online Marketplace"
[hired]: https://hired.com/ "Hired: 10 Minutes Could Get You 10 Job Offers from Top Tech Companies"
[loup]: https://loupapp.com/ "Loup: Redefining Local Transportation"
[lyft]: https://lyft.com/ "Lyft: Your Friend With a Car"
[uber]: https://uber.com/ "Uber: Your Ride On Demand"
[commandshift]: https://blog.commandshiftlabs.com/ "Announcements, stories, and information about CommandShift Labs."